README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img height="100px" src="./logo.png">
</p>

# Baseplate

![release](https://github.com/halfdomelabs/baseplate/actions/workflows/changesets.yml/badge.svg) ![tests](https://github.com/halfdomelabs/baseplate/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)

> **⚠️ WARNING: DEVELOPMENT VERSION**
>
> **This project is still very much in development and not ready for production use.** The code and configuration may introduce breaking changes at any time. While you're welcome to preview Baseplate and provide feedback, please **DO NOT use this in production applications** until we reach our alpha release.
>
> Use at your own risk for experimentation and development purposes only.

Baseplate is a platform designed to accelerate the development of coding projects. It automatically generates the necessary code for your features, allowing you to customize the codebase to your specific needs. This way, you can focus more on the harder challenges of coding instead of basic tasks like setting up CRUD (Create, Read, Update, and Delete) APIs or configuration variables.

## Features

Currently, Baseplate focuses on backend and administrative UIs, capable of generating:

- **Node.JS Backend:** This includes a server with CRUD endpoints backed by GraphQL, Prisma, and a Postgres database.

- **Web App:** This is a boilerplate React app compiled with Vite that includes authentication capabilities and communicates with backend APIs.

- **Admin App:** This is a React app that features an admin layout and simple CRUD operations, like viewing a list of users.

## Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/halfdomelabs/baseplate.git
cd baseplate
pnpm install
pnpm build
```

## Usage

To start using Baseplate, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
pnpm serve
```

The server will start on localhost:3230 (or your chosen port).

## Usage by other developers

For information on using Baseplate with an external project, please check our [Introduction to Baseplate Notion](https://www.notion.so/hdlabs/Introduction-to-Baseplate-60881365bb564d308ba144a8352c6efc).

## Support

For support, please open an [issue](https://github.com/halfdomelabs/baseplate/issues) or contact our team at support@halfdomelabs.com.

## Authors

Baseplate is made possible by these great [contributors](https://github.com/halfdomelabs/baseplate/graphs/contributors).

---

Let's build great things together with Baseplate! Happy Coding! 🚀

Commit message:

chore: Update LICENSE to modified MPL-2.0 license (#557)

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img height="100px" src="./logo.png">
</p>

# Baseplate

![release](https://github.com/halfdomelabs/baseplate/actions/workflows/changesets.yml/badge.svg) ![tests](https://github.com/halfdomelabs/baseplate/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)

> **⚠️ WARNING: DEVELOPMENT VERSION**
>
> **This project is still very much in development and not ready for production use.** The code and configuration may introduce breaking changes at any time. While you're welcome to preview Baseplate and provide feedback, please **DO NOT use this in production applications** until we reach our alpha release.
>
> Use at your own risk for experimentation and development purposes only.

Baseplate is a platform designed to accelerate the development of coding projects. It automatically generates the necessary code for your features, allowing you to customize the codebase to your specific needs. This way, you can focus more on the harder challenges of coding instead of basic tasks like setting up CRUD (Create, Read, Update, and Delete) APIs or configuration variables.

## Features

Currently, Baseplate focuses on backend and administrative UIs, capable of generating:

- **Node.JS Backend:** This includes a server with CRUD endpoints backed by GraphQL, Prisma, and a Postgres database.

- **Web App:** This is a boilerplate React app compiled with Vite that includes authentication capabilities and communicates with backend APIs.

- **Admin App:** This is a React app that features an admin layout and simple CRUD operations, like viewing a list of users.

## Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/halfdomelabs/baseplate.git
cd baseplate
pnpm install
pnpm build
```

## Usage

To start using Baseplate, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
pnpm serve
```

The server will start on localhost:3230 (or your chosen port).

## Usage by other developers

For information on using Baseplate with an external project, please check our [Introduction to Baseplate Notion](https://www.notion.so/hdlabs/Introduction-to-Baseplate-60881365bb564d308ba144a8352c6efc).

## Support

For support, please open an [issue](https://github.com/halfdomelabs/baseplate/issues) or contact our team at support@halfdomelabs.com.

## Authors

Baseplate is made possible by these great [contributors](https://github.com/halfdomelabs/baseplate/graphs/contributors).

# License

Baseplate is licensed under the [Mozilla Public License 2.0 (MPL-2.0)](LICENSE).

## Generated Code Ownership

**All code generated by Baseplate belongs entirely to you** with no restrictions or licensing requirements. You have complete freedom to:

- ✅ Use generated code commercially or non-commercially
- ✅ Modify generated code in any way
- ✅ Distribute generated code under any license (including proprietary)
- ✅ Keep generated code private
- ✅ Sell products built with generated code

Half Dome Labs disclaims any copyright interest in code generated by Baseplate. The generated code has no attribution requirements or licensing restrictions from Baseplate.

---

Let's build great things together with Baseplate! Happy Coding! 🚀
